Suggestions from WGLC review (#183)
ietf-wg-ohai/oblivious-http: draft-ietf-ohai-ohttp.md

from being able to carry state between requests, such as with cookies
({{?RFC6265}}), authentication ({{Section 11 of HTTP}}), or even
alternative services ({{?RFC7838}}).  Oblivious HTTP removes linkage

> at the transport layer, and must be used in conjunction with applications

Author: The "which" here didn't parse correctly for me — it sounds like it is referring to the transport layer? Happy to see this cleaned up in other ways too.

> at the transport layer, and must be used in conjunction with applications
> that do not carry state between requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
at the transport layer, which is only useful for an application
that does not carry state between requests.
```

Author: Yeah, this works better

like those involved with connection setup, can be amortized, but there are
several ways in which Oblivious HTTP is more expensive than a direct request:

* Each request requires at least two regular HTTP requests, which adds

>   processing latency.

Reviewer 2: It could be latency do the different path itself, too, so I would keep this as-is. But I don't feel strongly.

Author: I'm happy with a different wording here, but even latency due to a different path is quite different from having extra round trips. I'd like to make sure people don't think that it always has extra latency. Honestly, if your relay and gateway have a more optimized path, you may have *lower* latency.

Reviewer 3: Yes I agree with this point it _could_ be faster

Reviewer 2: I agree. The intro to this list says that OHTTP _adds_ cost, but this isn't true. It's a different cost, and that cost may be less than that of a direct connection. Maybe we can change the intro to say that OHTTP has different performance characteristics than a direct connection which vary based on things like having primed connections, more optimized paths, etc?

>   processing latency.

Author: I think it should be clear that the latency isn't due to extra round trips, but a "bump" in processing on the one round trip.

Reviewer 2: But it could be due to extra round trips between intermediate hops on the path, right?

Author: Rather, there aren't any extra client-facing round trips.

Reviewer 2: Right 👍

> * Each request requires at least two regular HTTP requests, which adds
>   processing latency.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Each request requires at least two regular HTTP requests, which could
  increase latency.
```

Reviewer 2: I would also be fine with this proposal.

Author: Yes, I think this is a way out of it too =)

{{Section 7.1 of !HPKE}}.  Nenc refers to the size of the encapsulated KEM
shared secret, in bytes.

> By default, an encrypted HTTP response includes a binary-encoded HTTP

Reviewer: I'd prefer the original here - it's more direct.

The use of an alternative content type requires a bit more than just pointing to some advice about how to switch out the content.  That is, the repurposing section is information about how someone might start to build a new, but similar encapsulation format.

Reviewer 2: I think we ought to be clear that the inner content type can change as applications need it to change, whether that's done here or some other way. Repurposing the format should only require a label change and nothing else. If there's more that needs to be done, then we should update the repurposing section accordingly.

Author: I agree with Chris. Since the "new encapsulation format" is just a matter of swapping the media type in the info strings and change the BHTTP content to another type, it's useful to be clear in the OHTTP spec which parts are the parts to swap out, and which are the parts that are constant across any contained media type.

I don't think more needs to be done — if there is something else, I'd like to hear it.

Reviewer: This particular change is fine.  But the reuse thing is amply covered by the section; I just don't think we need quite so many references to it.

FWIW, repurposing requires defining a new media type (`message/whatever-except-encrypted`) and then describing how that uses this document with a label based on the encapsulated type (`message/whatever`) instead of `message/bhttp`.

Author: We can cut down the references if there's still some text to make it clear that this isn't _always_ Binary HTTP.

Also, regarding the requirements for using things other than BHTTP: currently, the text just says that you need to have the inner media type be used in the label for the info. I don't think there's any requirement that other payloads not use message/ohttp-req and message/ohttp-res for the outer types. They certainly _can_ define other media types for the outside if they want, particularly if two different types are supported by the same gateway. However, if the client knows about the gateway via out-of-band configuration, it could simply know the inner format to use and not need to have a relay in between know anything about the inner encapsulated payload being something other than binary HTTP.

Reviewer: Hmm.  This is partly why I made #91.  The content of this media type does not identify what it carries - including whether it contains a request or a response, which is why we define two - so you really can't use message/ohttp-re[qs] for anything other than a binary HTTP message.

content is accessible to middleboxes.

> # Repurposing the Encapsulation Format {#repurposing}

Reviewer: I'm not a fan of the additional links to the repurposing section here, aside from this one :)

example, if a future specification were to use the encryption mechanism in
this specification for DNS messages, identified by the "application/dns-message"

> media type, then the HPKE info string SHOULD be "application/dns-message

Reviewer: Using normative language here was a mistake, I think.

```suggestion
media type, then the HPKE info string could be "application/dns-message
```

> request", a zero byte, and the header for request encryption. Similarly,

Author: This is the one "bug" in the specification I saw, where we didn't update the info string suggestion
